
All right, twin. Say something. Hello. Okay, twin. I think it can hear you, twin. Number one- Why are you waving? Don't look at my notes, bro. This is just the interviewer, interviewer only. All right. Just kidding. Go ahead. Let me see. I need to make sure you're ... Yeah, you're still recording. Okay. Um, can you describe a specific moment or assignment in college where you realized the way you studied in high school wasn't gonna work anymore? Um- 55 on that math. I guess when I realized I had three ... Yeah, no. The 55 on the math was sort of a wake-up call when I was studying the same way that I did in high school and I got, um, a 50, 55. It was not good. Okay. Lovely, lovely, lovely answer. Um, I guess to quote my ... I can follow up on that. Do you think that's just 'cause ... Do you think high school didn't prepare you well for that type of, for, for what you needed to ... Like, did high school not prepare you well to learn or learn the way that you needed to, to be able to s- be, to be successful on that exam? No. I think it was just a matter of I was prepared and I had the skills. I just wasn't prepared for the, like, the difference in, between med- high school and college. There, it's, you know ... You can study and prepare for stuff in high school. It's a lot easier than studying and preparing for stuff in college. It's not like I didn't have the skills. I was just wasn't expecting the level of difficulty. Okay. So then what, what is the difference then? It's just, it's just harder? I would say it's harder and the grading is harsher. Okay, and then ... Okay, so earlier you said that- Dude, go to the second question. It's just- Fuck you. Okay, fine. ... a lot better. Fine, fine, fine. Fine, twin. Um, how much in, in ... How much more do teachers, how much more do teachers guide you through exams or questions in high school than relative to college? Much more. Um, we spent time in class actually going over like study sheets and going over topics that we did know. But in co- in college, it's just they give you the material and then they expect you to, you know, figure out what you need to study and figure out what, how you need to do to do that. Did you ever try to use a high school strategy that completely failed in college? If so, how did it happen? Uh, none of them completely failed. You just kinda have to go more in depth with them 'cause everything in college seems to be more in depth. So, just use the skills you learned in high school and then take them to the next step. Um, what digital ... You nasty bitch. What did- Whoa, bat. You nasty bitch. I hope, I'm hoping all this audio's in here. I think it is. Say something again. Hello. Hello. Okay, there it is. Um, did you start using any ... Sorry. What digital tools or apps- (laughs) ... if any, do you use now that you didn't use in high school? Why did you start using them? ChatGPT. (laughs) You used ChatGBT in high school? (laughs) Yeah. No, so I didn't start using any new ones. I actually stopped using some because college courses are a lot less, like- What did you stop using? Like Quizlet and stuff. I haven't gone back to Quizlet or stuff like that 'cause I feel like- But did you really use- ... AP courses are a lot more docu- ... Quizlet in high school? Yeah, because AP courses are a lot more documented. Oh, okay. They're much, they're much more regular. So when you were s- you could study for AP courses using Quizlets because everyone has taken the same course and the same curriculum. Okay. Okay. In college, it's different for every student now. But would you say that that's ... Would you say that's just because the material is more available or because that's- Yes. (laughs) Okay. Did you use digital tools ... I mean, you're saying you, you use them less, but would you say that you use the same digital tools, you just use them in a different way? No. So, you used, um, your planner the same way in college that you used it in high school? Well, okay. My planner I use a lot differently. Oh, okay. So, you used your planner differently. So, wait. So, what you said earlier- So, I, I thought ... Sorry, I thought you were referring to study tools. (laughs) Um, my planner, I use a lot more in depth and I put a lot more stuff in my planner than I did in high school 'cause for high school- Okay. ... everything was the same every day. I knew where I was going and I knew what was going on. But with my ... With college, there's different times for everything. It's a lot harder to keep track of everything, so. Do you think technology has made your studying easier or harder in college? Easier. Relative? You think studying, relative to high school? Yeah, definitely, because I feel like you have to use a lot more technology. Especially now in, in college, I've noticed a lot more stuff is online. Rather than teachers giving you like, say, a study guide in class like high school, it's all online. You have to find your own resources online. Okay. So, just relative to the difficulty, the impact that online tools have are greater. On, the, the impact of f- of online tools in college is greater than, than they were in high school. Um, what do you think ... I mean, obviously, to become a student at Virginia Tech, especially engineering, you have to have a certain level of academic rigor and you have to be successful in high school.... earlier when we were talking about an exam that you didn't do too well on- (laughs) ... what do you think is the biggest reason for that change between, I guess, being, no offense, probably top 10, 15% of your class to being... Not doing so well on exams? Um, the support that you get in high school is a lot different than the support you get in college. Um, my professors don't even know my name, but in high school you have year-long courses. You spend a lot more time on, um, on subjects. And I've gone through stuff that in high school we spent two to three weeks on, we spend a day on in college. So, it's a lot different. It's a lot more fast-paced and it's much more difficult to pick up on that. It's a change of speed which is, you know- Okay. ... it's difficult. No, my question is would you say that high school didn't teach you the independence that you needed in college? I wouldn't say that, because, I mean, in the later years of high school, teachers aren't like... Sometimes they are. Sometimes they're telling you to do assignments every day. But in, in the later years of high school, like senior year, they're not gonna remind you every day to do an assignment. You just have to know to do them. But is that the s- Is that the type of support you're talking about? I feel like earlier you were talking more about, like, you were talking more about, like, going over study guides and stuff and, like, basically doing the studying with you. Um, and then also you talked about that shift, you know. So, I guess my question is where does it come from? You know, if you're saying that you're struggling with doing a lot of these things that in high school they did with you, but then you're also saying they prepared you enough, like, where does that disconnect come from? I think it just be- comes from the amount of connection you have with the teachers and professors. Your... I don't understand the question. (laughs) Okay. You, earlier you said... Earlier you said that the one thing that made you perform better in high school, relatively, was that teachers... You had much more support from teachers. They went over study guides. They did, they did a lot of that help to prepare you for an exam with you. And then now you're saying they did prepare you well enough to learn. Like, how- They prepared me well enough to learn. Um, I would say the only disconnect is it- I- you- it's... College is all about independence. And that's something that I expected. That's something that I was un-... I understood going into it, but it's still a sh- Like, you have to learn that go-... like, in college. It's just being independent in your studying, and that's something that you didn't really get as much of in high school. Got it. S- so the independence is really the disconnect. Got it. Got it. Okay, um. This is a video (laughs). Um, are there any classes where you're doing better or worse than you expected? What's different about them, about how you approached these classes? What do you mean, what's different about how you approached these classes? Relative to what? So, so relative... So, you're... Obviously, there's classes you're doing well in and there's classes that you're doing not so great in, or you're doing less well in. Less well in. (laughs) I'm just being nice, okay? Um, what's the difference? Just, is it just difficulty? The difference between those two classes? Yeah. Say, the class that I'm doing good in and the class that- Yeah. ... I'm barely passing? Like, okay. But are there, are there classes which are hard that you're doing well in, and then classes that you're, that are hard that you're doing poorly in? And then if there's, if there's a difference there, why? The difference would... is just the professor. If you have a good professor who is open to questions and is there to support you and has, like, solid office hours, then you get more support- (coughs) ... and you'll be able to understand the harder material easier. Like, take my chem professor, for example. He's very good at explaining things. Um, he speaks fluent English, so it's- it's easier to understand him. Mm-hmm. In literally, and like, just the- the concepts that he's explaining. Okay, okay. Moving on. If you could design one class or program in high school that would have prepared you better for college, what would it teach? (laughs) This is a video. Um, I don't want to say study habits, because it's hard to design a class that teaches study habits well. Um... I, I, I guess followup to that, if you say study habits, wouldn't, wouldn't that mean that you want high school to teach you more independence? Yeah. No, go on, go on. I want high school to teach me more independence (laughs). He's fabricating data. I'm not (laughs). That is a slander. In quotes. I never said that. (laughs) Okay, please. Come on, answer the question. What's the question? I guess you're saying study habits. Yeah, it says study habits, right, as an- It's okay, it's okay. Okay, um, looking back at your senior year, was there anything that your teachers or school did that actually did prepare you for college studying? Um-When they would come in and say, "You guys, none of you did this assignment. This is not gonna fly in college," it kind of gives you under- an understanding of ... Well, I mean, it, stuff actually does fly in college. That's the funny thing. (laughs) (laughs) (laughs) What? It's, um ... No, but I think in senior year, like I was saying earlier, there is more independence than, say, in, in freshman year, um, or sophomore year even. Like, my AP World class, we would get full study booklets and then we would go over them in class. Senior year, there was not as much of that, right? Well, like, f- what class specifically would you say? My sophomore year AP Wor- AP World class. No, your senior year, which class? My senior year classes? Um ... I felt like, okay, Gov definitely not. Calc- Calc- Calculus BC I think was one. He gave us practice tests. He gave us practice tests but- I guess they give us practice tests here too. They give us practice tests here too. Yeah. It's just, that's something that they do in college th- that, he was doing in high school that prepared me. Dad in the ... Mm-hmm. Do you think struggling with time management or self-study in your first semester is normal? Do you feel like you should've been better prepared? I do think it's normal. Um, I think it's just a, like I said, again, like I said earlier, it's, it's a shift, you know? You have to learn how to work in college. But I also think that time management is honestly easier here. Um, we're in the spot where, to me at least, it feels as though I'm always at school. I never leave campus. So coming back to my dorm, I still think that, I s- I'm still in that mindset that I, I'm, I'm at school. And so I'm, I'm prepared to do work and I'm not, like, I don't have distractions that I would've had at home where I could just get in my car and go somewhere random and put off my work. All right. What was that look? Thank you very much for your interview. Go dive off Slusher Tower, kill yourself. (laughs)