#Electrical_Engineering #Lecture #dump #ECE_2544 #Hardware #ECE 

# Lecture Notes 


## Flip Flop Review
- Relative to sequential logic combinational circuits constantly monitor the output 
- The state of a circuit is held in memory in a circuit called a flip flop where the flip flop reading its value is determined by the clock. 

- SR Flip flop review 
	- It contains a S R and C input where they represent set, reset and clock respectively 
	- if the set and reset are held high at the same time then we have an undetermined output. 

- D flip flip 
	- Just passes D to the flip flip where a $0$ passed to the D flip flip means reset and a 1 passed means set. 

- Propagation delay
	- if the propagation delay is longer than the clock cycle we have an unstable system

- The signal must stay stable for the setup time to the hold time for the flip flop to correctly read the value. 

- Clear signal on flip flips asynchronously forces the input low.
	- This is done because we don't know the initial condition of the flip flip and we need to control for the initial conditions to have a predictable output.


### Registers 
- To store values we can simply pass them to d flip flips and then control the clock so we only change the clock signal to high (rising edge) when we want to change values.
- To store vectors of values we simply have the same amount of D flip flips as values in the vector, we can also add a clear value to clear to a known state. 
- but we need to control when the clock signal goes high becasue if we load the register at every CPU clock cycle it doesnt really store data it just updates the most recently passed value. 
	- To do this we simply add an enable to the clock signal where it only goes high if both the clock and the enable signal are high. 
 

## Questions
- 

