The implementation of the algorithm was just applying the concept found in the [[A Star algorithm vid notes|notes page]]. Overview Its a demo for the algorithm.


# Mindset and planning 
My overall goal of this project was to learn and understand a complex algorithm. Then create distinguishable components written well and notably as independent as possible. 

### Goals with classes 
My goal with the classes was to create objects that have a somewhat universal function. For example the [[#grid]] class was soposed to be structured in a way were its a container for information. This rule wasn't perfectly applied as i implemented a find neighbor method that find the neighbor grids around it which wasn't intened and should have been put in main loop  

### Planning the algorithm 
I planned the algorithm through the [[PseudoCode for A*|pseudo code]]. That code was largely created with the help of the [wiki.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A*_search_algorithm#Pseudocode) The structure of this version of the algorithm is also found in part in the wiki and in the [[#Credit|Video.]] 


---

# Code structure 
The code was split into 3 parts 
* [[#Node Class]] 
	*  The node Class is a container for all of the nodes 
* [[#Algorithm|Algorithm Function ]]
	* This function is the main function behind the application of the [[A Star algorithm vid notes|notes]]. It takes the inputs from the player generated by mainloop pauses updates and runs the "math" behind getting the result.
* [[#Mainloop]]
	* Main loop is responsible for using all the functions and methods we have created. It sets up the grid, checks for keyboard inputs and manages all objects. It also maintains the frame rate and all display/Dimension objects.


# Algorithm Code 
The algorithm implemented works by using the [[A Star algorithm vid notes#G and F set components| F score]]  to decide what node to select next this functions in python through the [[Priority Queue]] module. This module as in its name is a [[Priority Queue]] data structure. 



## Main loop line by line 
### Innit
``` python
def AStar(start,end,grid):
	queue = PriorityQueue()
	start_fscore = start.getHscore(end)
	queue.put((start_fscore,0, start))
	n = 1
```
This is the innit for the function and were it takes the arguments these arguments are:
- **Grid:** Passing the grid object is a mistake in the code and is only done because of previous design errors
- **Start:** The start object from the grid to be used for the algorithm to start from or as a first node 
- **End:** The end as you guessed is the last node that when the algorithm reaches terminates the function.

This line of code is used to innitalize the priority queue object/queue to set the variable count number and the f score which we know 


### loop
``` python

	while True:
		top = queue.get()
		# getting the object with the highest priority or F score 
		
		topNeighbors = top[2].getNeighbors(grid)
		# Getting the list of nighbors for the selected "top" node

		for Neighbor in topNeighbors:
			# Going through all neighbors of the top node 
			
			H_Score = Neighbor.getHscore(end)
			# Getting the Hscore score of the current neighbor

			Fscore = H_Score + Neighbor.G
			#creating the F score of the current neighbor
			
			if Neighbor == end: # Checks if we found the end node 
				
				backTrack(top[2],start)
					# Tracing back the fastest way to the start after
					# finding the end node.
				return False
				# Break out of the loop 
				
			
			queue.put((Fscore,n,Neighbor))
			# Adds the nieghbors to the priority queue 
			n+=1
			# makes an order for all of the objects in the queue 
		draw(grid)

```
This loop structure is based off of the [[PseudoCode for A*|Pseudo code]] and is almost identical. 

# Player input

---
# Credit
Many of the structures used in the final project and very similar to the ones in the video as the idea behind the project is the same and i took inspiration from node class. Although only the idea/structure is similar, the actual code is my invention.
[Youtube Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JtiK0DOeI4A&list=PLFiR2kPtlWf4wdMuA745-JNiFWyFt-Nah&t=574s)

