#Electrical_Engineering #Lecture #dump #ECE_2024  #Hardware #ECE 

# Lecture Notes




**Equation for sinusoidal voltage is**
$$
v(t)=V_{m}\cos(\omega t+\theta)
$$
> where $V_{m}$ is the maximum voltage 
> $\theta$ is the phase 


- We tend to reference cosine for our wave forms since cosine is a real function. 

- Sinusoidal signals are periodic signals which means it repeats every $T$ seconds

$$
v(t)=V_{m}\cos(\omega t+\theta)=V_{m}\cos(\omega(t+nT)+\theta)
$$

> [!Example]-
> Assume that the voltage of your computer peaks at 156 V at a frequency of $60 \mathrm{hz}$ if the peak voltage is detected $4\mathrm{ms}$ after the begining of the mesurement give a time domain expression for this voltage as a cosine funciton
> 
> $$
> \begin{array}{lll}
> V_{m}= 156, & \omega = 2\pi(60) = 377 
> \end{array}
> $$
> 
> The peak value for a cosine occurs at $t=0,2\pi,4\pi$
> $$
> \begin{array}{ll}
> \omega t+\theta=0 \to \theta=-\omega t \\
>  \\
> \theta=-377(.004s)=-1.508 \mathrm{ \space radians}
> \end{array}
> $$
> 


- Phase is practically a time delay even if it is in terms of radians or degrees


**Euler's formula**
$$
e^{j\theta}=\cos (\theta)+j \cdot \sin(\theta)
$$
> This is what was talked about earlier $\sin(\theta)$ is the imaginary part

- Sin and cos can be related by 
$$
\begin{align}
\sin(A)=\cos(A-90) \\
\cos(A) = \sin(A+90)
\end{align}
$$



Definition of **RMS**
$$
X_{\mathrm{rms}} = \sqrt{ \frac{1}{T} \int_{0}^T x(t)^2 \, dt  }
$$

- If we simplify for sinusoids we get
$$
V_{\mathrm{rms}}=\frac{V_{m}}{\sqrt{ 2 }}
$$

> For sinusoidal signals

- RMS is the amount of voltage or current that a resistor would "see" when the signal is applied so its very useful for power calculations, among other things. 

- Inductors create flux that generate back EMF that opposes current this is how it regulates current. 




### Phasors 
- They are ways to represent complex systems 
- they are complex numbers we use to represent sinusoidal voltages and currents in steady state with an implied frequency ($\omega$).

$$
\begin{align}
V_{m} & =\cos(\omega t+\theta) = \mathrm{real} [V_{m}e^{j(\omega t+\theta_{v})}] \\
I_{m} & = \cos(\omega t+\theta) = \mathrm{real} [I_{m}e^{j(\omega t+\theta_{i})}]
\end{align}
$$
- The angle $\theta$ of a phasor is usually given indegrees with respect to an implicit or explicit reference. 
	- Implicit: we have a voltage source source and we assign it zero degrees
	- Explicit: We are given an angular difference or angle with respect to a reference

### Review of Complex Numbers 


Complex numbers can be expressed in three forms 

$$
\begin{align}
\mathrm{Exponential: } & &   Ae^{j\theta} \\
\mathrm{Polar \space notation: } &  & A \angle \theta \\
\mathrm{Rectangular: } &  & a+jb
\end{align}
$$
- to add or subtract they need to be converted to rectangular 


#### Linearization

- Why phasors?
	- Phasors will allow us to linearize the steady state relationships between voltage and current for resistors, capacitors and inductors.

- How?
	- We assume a fixed frequency 
	- We will express sinusoidal sources, resistors, inductors and capacitors in their complex number representation (Phasor representation) at a fixed frequency.
	- We will then apply the circuit-analysis techniques we learned for linear circuits to
	- these complex numbers and obtain a solution as a complex number.
	- We will express our complex solution in Euler-form and extract the real part from the Euler-form solution.
	- The extracted real part will be our solution for steady state sinusoidal signals at the given fixed frequency




### Impedance 
- Impedance is a measure of the opposition to the flow of charge (electrons ) due to electron collisions (resistance) plus changes in magnetic fields (inductance) and changes in electice fields (capacitance)
$$
Z=R+jX
$$
> $Z$ is impedance 
> $R$ is resistance (dissipated energy)
> $X$ is reactance (stored energy)



- Impedance of an element is determined by dividing the phasor voltage across the element by the phasor current through an element. 

$$
Z=\frac{V}{I}
$$
> V is the voltage phasor across the element 
> I is the current phasor through the element
> Z is the impedance of the electric element
- all are complex numbers


**Using ohms law**

$$
Z_{R}= \frac{V}{I} = R
$$
- For a resistor its impedance is equal to its resistance at all frequencies 
	- So they arent effected by frequency 



**Impedance of a Capacitor**
$$
Z_{c} = -\frac{j}{\omega C}
$$
- The impedance of a capacitor is a negative imaginary number, inversely proportional to the frequency of the applied sinusoidal signal.

**Impedance of a Inductor**
$$
Z_{L} = j \omega L
$$
- The impedance of an inductor is a positive imaginary number proportional to the frequency of the applied sinusoidal frequency.



- Reciprocal of impedance is called the admittance and is in the unit of siemens. 


### What makes phasors usefull:

- Phasors will allow us to use complex numbers to linearize our RLC circuits and perform “steady sate” analysis of circuits with sinusoidal signals
	- As far as i understand this means that like linearization within physics a usual varying behavior can be expressed in some way that useful behaviors of it can be calculated using linearization.
- 




## Anki Cards
- 


## Questions
- 
