Through the late 1800s the 2 emerging us political parties being the federalist and democratic republicans both characterized originally as loose constructionist and strict constructionist respectively. After Tomas Jefferson a democratic republican gains power the relative characterization begins to shift as the 2 party's balance their traditional values with either the goal of effective governance or gaining political power these values shift across the spectrum of strict and loose constructionism now no longer defined starkly by party lines.  From 1801 to 1817 the Democratic Republicans and the Federalists wavered from the  traditional characterization through change in their Political rhetoric, Economic policy and their interpretation of the powers of each branch of government. 

Through the presidencies Jefferson and Madison shift their position in their political rhetoric to increase the strength of the federal government as to allow them to effectively govern the US. Jefferson's beliefs shift drastically through his presidency as 
Before his presidency he was a strong proponent of the strict constructionist ideas arguing for strong states rights(A). His position shifted through his actions when he  purchased the Louisiana territory without congresses consent an action that goes against the separation of powers and a fundamental strict adherence to the constitution a position that <u>was</u> fundamental to his party. Although one might believe that Jefferson position changed it was simplify his situation as at the very end of his presidency Jefferson returned to strict constructionist(B) thinking to remedy his "loose" policy and actions during his presidency a way to regain political influence with his own party. Another reason why he might have returned is because of his role in founding the very system even before the constitution passing things such as the Virginia statute of religious liberties.  

Through the presidencies the 2 presidents shifted from strict constructionism  economically . Specifically James Maddison a person who had be so against the initial national bank that it caused him to change parties would then in 1814 create the second national bank. This shift in Madison economic policy was against what he had stood for before his presidency a shift in his belief relative to his party. Another example was during Jefferson's presidency where he passed the Embargo acts a act that closed the US off export of all goods a bill that was in accordance with loose constructionism a change in the his traditional beliefs. These changes showcase how democratic republican's shifted in their control of the government economically as soon as they became president a theme will change their views to enhance their power. Now not only the democratic republicans shifted their view but the Federalists did as well they were in great opposition to the embargo act(C) even though they would in traditional accordance with their party believe in such a bill they opposed it to keep political relevance but this would also shift them from their respective traditional values.

Finally the 2 parties also shifted their views relative to the role of the branches of government. Jefferson and Madison believed that initially that the role of government was limited and that the power of governance should rest in the states as both were founding fathers. Jefferson's view at the end of his presidency again contrasts with what he believed initially as he believed that the constitution was a document that should change(G) this represents the strongest flip in beliefs as it is the foundational principal of the Federalist party. On the other end James Maddison at the end of his presidency in an attempt to secure more political power switched back to very strict constructionist ideas(H). This trend overall of changing your public views on the constitution  and its role at the end Maddison and Jefferson's term was an indicator of the 