
## [Ap Daily video 8.1 ](https://apclassroom.collegeboard.org/6/assignments?apd=e9zh03rly3&status=assigned)
- Why do organisms respond to changes in their environemnt?
	- Because of external stimuli 
- How do organisms exchange information with one another?
	- They  do this in response to internal and external signals
- How can an organism's signaling behavior produce changes in behavior of other organisms and affect reproductive success.?
	- Behavioral traits such as mating behavior can inhibit a speices from reproducing with itself becasue of changes in mating behavior 
- What types of behavior does natural selection favor?
	- Behavior that increases an animals fitness 
- How does cooperative behavior impact individual fitness and survival of a population?
	- It can increase the organisms chances of survival. A good example would be an ant
---
Signals consist of 
- Visual 
- audible 
- tactile 
- Electrical
- Chemical 

&emsp;


## Ap Daily Video 8.2 
- How do organisms regulate body temp and metabolism?
	- Endotherms use thermal energy generated by  metabolism to maintain body temp
	- Ectotherms lack internal mechanisms to regualte and maintain body temp (crocodile) they mostly rely on behaviors to regualte temp
- What reproductive strategies do organisms use in response to energy availability?
	- Some organisms adapt 
- What is the relationship between the metabolic rate and size of an organism?
	- Generally the smaller the organism the higher the metabolic rate
- How does a net gain in energy or net loss of energy impact and organism?
	- Net gain results in storage or growth 
	- Net loss can result in loss of mass and possibly death
