#Political_Science #Politics #Economics
# Lecture Dump 


- Imperialism vs Colonialism/Lennins theories
	- Colonialism implies a mercantilist economic system and a system motivated by extraction usually of commodities
	- Lenin's definition of imperialism is that companies will divide up resources among a small number of themselves. 
	- The concentration of production is a very important aspect of Lenin's definition of imperialism. 
	- the industrial capital that industry used to use to invest into production is owned by the banks.
		- The role of the bank changes to become much more significant because they now have a direct role in production due to their ownership of huge sums of capital (investment bankers) 
	- Now that the banks have control of the capital the economic incentives shift away from pure export to other roles 

- capitalism incentivizes companies to monopolize and become cartels because it is better for the accumulation of capital. 

**chapter summary**
- talks about cartels and other groups that concentrate capital and production


"dependence"
- The idea that economic growth within periphery countries such as Vietnam or Brazil is dependent on economic growth within core countries.
- Also contains the idea that the quality of life within core countries is dependent on the exploitation of people within the periphery. 
- Once you are in a situation of dependence of it is very hard to leave that circle because for these countries to invest within their own countries they are dependent on finance from "core countries". 
- Workers of the periphery are 'superexploited' because the absolute surplus value is stretched.


**Theories of dependence**
- Colonial dependence
	- Where mother states facilitate national monopolies that extract wealth
- Financial Industrial dependence
	- You as the producer are dependent on finance from banks and they extract profit through that avenue 
	- 

**Key Terms**
- Imperialism
	- The conglomeration of capital and profit within a small group of countries/companies
	- The flow of money/capital into the core countries/extraction of profit.
	- Imperialism requires a level of inequality to allow for countries within the periphery to be extracted 
- Empire
	- Through internal reforms (mostly neoliberal) there is no longer an imperial center although there is an unequal 
- Dependence
	- the idea that even after formal independence internal processes within countries cause their economic development to be **dependent** on core countries.  

## Questions
-  How does neoliberalism extract profit from dependent countries
	- when countries agree to SAP's or other neoliberal reforms it allows foreign companies to come in outcompete and monopolize industry within countries that are newly "globalized"
	- Most of the extraction takes place when companies such as Shell or BP come into countries buy up newly privatized industry and maximize profit/extract profit into the mother country such as the US or Britain. 



 &emsp;

---
# Resources 