
# Lecture Dump 
- The usual story of capitalism as a meritocracy where the "hard working" people managed to rise and others the "dumb ones" were left behind.
- Feudalism to capitalism
	- Reciprocal relationship where surfs give away their freedom for "safty"
	- "Crown -> nobility -> Vassals -> peasants"
- **Primitive accumulation** 
	- 1450-1800 peasants were violently expropriated through enclosures of common lands (for sheep pasture due to wool demand), seizure of church lands during the reformation, and state backed laws that turned communal rights into private property.  
- Means of dispossession 
	- Force and later law(e.g parliamentary enclosure acts) institutionalized expropriation; poverty was criminalized through vagrancy laws and incarceration, shifting blame onto the dispossessed. 
- Agents of transformation
	- **The state** actively enforced dispossession and financed capital through institutions like the bank of England
	- **Capitalist Farmers**
	- **Industrial capitalists** organized circulation and trade (including colloidal trade )
	- **Bankers** enabled public credit for investment in emerging industries
- The story that Marx tells highlights the violent and forced elements of the capitalist transition much more than 'traditional' telling of events.

- its a qualitative transformation into a system dependent on dispossession, wage labor, surplus extraction, and a tendency toward monopoly.


### The logics of capitalism 
- Assumptions:
	- Competitive markets, wage labor, and capitalist rivalry
	- Capitalism emerges historically through human agency but once established operates with internal laws of motion that constrain both workers and capitalist, though contingencies prevent full predictability. 

**Key catagories**
- capital, money, value, and the 

- **Capital:** something with value that gains you more value
- **Money:** the universal equivalent of all other commodities 
	- means of circulation 
	- means of payment 
	- Means of loans 
- **Commodities:**
	- Something that has a use value 
	- Will have an exchange value 
	- utility vs exchange value
- **Accumulation**
	- surplus value = the additional hours a worker continues to work after working enough to produce the value of their own wage. 

- Items with the same exchange value often share similar labor 
- 

## Questions
- What is abstract value?





 &emsp;

---
# Resources 