
## [Ap Daily video 8.1 ](https://apclassroom.collegeboard.org/6/assignments?apd=e9zh03rly3&status=assigned)
- Why do organisms respond to changes in their environemnt?
	- Because of external stimuli 
- How do organisms exchange information with one another?
	- They  do this in response to internal and external signals
- How can an organism's signaling behavior produce changes in behavior of other organisms and affect reproductive success.?
	- Behavioral traits such as mating behavior can inhibit a speices from reproducing with itself becasue of changes in mating behavior 
- What types of behavior does natural selection favor?
	- Behavior that increases an animals fitness 
- How does cooperative behavior impact individual fitness and survival of a population?
	- It can increase the organisms chances of survival. A good example would be an ant
---
Signals consist of 
- Visual 
- audible 
- tactile 
- Electrical
- Chemical 

&emsp;


## Ap Daily Video 8.2 
- How do organisms regulate body temp and metabolism?
	- Endotherms use thermal energy generated by  metabolism to maintain body temp
	- Ectotherms lack internal mechanisms to regualte and maintain body temp (crocodile) they mostly rely on behaviors to regualte temp
- What reproductive strategies do organisms use in response to energy availability?
	- Some organisms adapt 
- What is the relationship between the metabolic rate and size of an organism?
	- Generally the smaller the organism the higher the metabolic rate
- How does a net gain in energy or net loss of energy impact and organism?
	- Net gain results in storage or growth 
	- Net loss can result in loss of mass and possibly death




## [AP Daily Video 8.4](https://apclassroom.collegeboard.org/6/assignments?apd=dh1d3mkez8&status=assigned)
- what would cause the population to produce a density of individuals that exceeds the system's resource availability?
	- An abundance of food could cause breif overproduction 
- what causes a population to display a logistic growth model?
	- S-shaped curve
	- Is caused by exponential growth, so it requires that a population experience a massive increase in resource availability 

---
- Density dependent factors: abiotic or biotic factors that affect population size
$$
\frac{dN}{dt}=r_{\text{max}}N\left( \frac{K-N}{K} \right)
$$


## [AP Daily Video 8.5 ](https://apclassroom.collegeboard.org/6/assignments?apd=losj8aw8zf&status=assigned)
- how is the structure of a community measured?
	- The **Simpsons Diversity index**
$$
\text{Diversity Index }= 1- \sum \left( \frac{n}{N} \right)^2
$$
- what determines whether communities change overtime?
	- The geological and resource conditions 
	- Depending upon interactions between species things like competition matter a lot.
- how do populations access energy and matter in the community?
	- Through their physical interactions eg eating food
- how are relationships between populations characterized?
- what types of interactions drive population dynamics?
	- competition
	- Types of species interactions Below
- how is community structure related to energy availability in the environment?
	- Limiting factors along with species interactions often determine the energy availability of one species when compared to another 
---
- A **community** is a group of species living together in the same location and interacting with one another
- **Species composition** is the identity of each species in the group
- Types of speices interactions
	- **Mutualism:** both species benifit
	- **Commensalism:** one benifits the other doesnt 
	- **Parasites**
	- **Predatory pray**


## [AP daily video 8.6](https://apclassroom.collegeboard.org/6/assignments?apd=007a5d41k5&status=assigned)
- what types of ecosystem influence the organization of the ecosystem?
	- The diversity?
- how does the diversity of species within an ecosystem influence the organization of the ecosystem?
	- The way that the populations interact for example producers vs consumers affect the long-term structure of that ecosystem
- what contributes to maintaining the diversity of an ecosystem?
	- Environmental factors
	- Abiotic and biotic factors 
	- Abiotic factors help maintain diversity 
		- Light 
		- water
		- Climate
	- Producers help maintain diversity
	- Predators help maintain other populations
- how does the addition or removal of any component of an ecosystem affect its overall short term and long term structure?
	- 
---
- Diversity is related to resilience
- **Keystone species** effect on the ecosystem have a disproportional effect on the environment 

